This is a 47-year-old male with a past medical history of hyperlipidemia (HLD), gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), anxiety and former tobacco smoker of around six pack-years in his 20s, and no familial history of cardiac arrest who is presenting to the ED of a secondary community based center complaining of intermittent exertional substernal chest pain for the last few months that has been progressively worsening in frequency and intensity, especially in the last two weeks. The patient stated that he was not able to walk to his car without stopping multiple times due to shortness of breath and chest tightness. Symptoms would resolve with rest. The patient denied any fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, leg swelling, or recent travel. Review of systems was otherwise unremarkable. About six months prior, the patient stated he had seen a cardiologist for a routine check-up. At the time, a cardiac stress test and echocardiogram were performed and came back normal, but had an elevated coronary artery calcium score (CACS) that was greater than 200, and was prescribed atorvastatin 20 mg. His other home medications, including clonazepam, citalopram, and pantoprazole, were taken as needed.

Upon presentation in the ED, the patient's vital signs were within normal limits: temperature 98.0 F, heart rate 62 bpm, blood pressure 124/82 mmHg, respiratory rate 16 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation 96% on room air. The patient's weight was 184.9 lbs and height was 6 ft. There were no abnormalities upon physical examination, including regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 heart sounds on cardiac exam, and lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally on respiratory exam. Comprehensive metabolic panel was unremarkable. Complete blood count with automated differential revealed a slightly decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit at 12.8 g/dL and 36.7%, respectively, but were otherwise unremarkable. Coagulation studies revealed no abnormalities. Cardiac biomarkers were within normal limits. Specifically, creatine kinase-MB was less than 1.0 ng/mL. The first high-sensitivity troponin I measurement was 5.9 ng/L, and three hours later, the second measurement was 6.3 ng/L. Chest X-ray was negative for pneumothorax, opacities, or free air. Electrocardiogram revealed sinus bradycardia with no acute ST/T wave abnormalities.
